== Famili

Yet Another ObjectMother pattern implementation for rails testing

== Why
  
We meet some problems with factory-girl:

* We require quite complex logic for creation of test models
* We require use factories with running rails application for integration tests 
* So why don't make factory just another class in rails lib, and get extensibility of factories/mothers and rails lazy loading and dependency management?

== Setup

1. Create folder app/famili under project root
2. Add app/famili to autoload path
  
  # application.rb
  config.autoload_paths.push 'app/famili'

== Example

To define factory/mother for models User and Article just add following files to your app/famili directory:

  #app/famili/user_famili.rb
  class UserFamili < Famili::Mother
    fist_name { 'nicola' }
    last_name { 'nicola' }
    email     { "#{last_name}@mail.lv" } 
  
    def before_save(user)
        #...
    end
  
    def after_create(user)
        #...
    end
  end
 
  #app/famili/article_famili.rb
  class ArticleFamili < Famili::Mother
    #creating association
    user  { UserFamili.create }
    title { "article by #{user.last_name}" }
  end  


And you can use it anywhere in tests or controllers:
  
 UserFamili.create(:fist_name=>'Override') # create model
 UserFamili.build(:fist_name=>'Override')  # build model (do not save)
 UserFamili.hash(:fist_name=>'Override')   # get attributes hash 

 ArticleFamili.create #create article with user

== Inheritance 

You can inherite mothers just like plain ruby classes,
Just think each declaration field_name {...} as method definition
   
   class UserFamili < Famili::Mother
     name { "nicola" }
   end

   class PersonFamili < UserFamili
     email { "#{name}@emial.com" }
   end

== Mother methods

Mother have some usable methods, which can be used
  
  class UserFamili < Famili::Mother
    last_name { 'nicola' }
    login { "#{last_name}_#{unique}" } 
    number { sequence_number }
  end 

Mother supports scopes

  class UserFamili < Mother
    last_name { 'nicola' }
    login { "#{last_name}_#{unique}" }
    number { sequence_number }

    scope :unidentified do
      last_name { 'unknown' }
    end
  end

  UserFamili.unidentified.create(:first_name => 'john') # john unknown

You can even use anonymous scope:

  shared = UserFamili.scoped(:first_name => 'jeffry')
  shared.create(:last_name => 'stone') # jeffry stone
  shared.create(:last_name => 'snow')  # jeffry snow

When you need to create number of similar objects, you can use {build,create}_brothers methods:

  brothers = UserFamili.create_brothers(2, :first_name => 'john') # both john nicola, but with different login and number

If you have complex initialization logic, which you want apply just after object was initialized, you can do it in initialization block:

  UserFamili.create do |user|
    user.login = "updated_#{user.login}"
  end

== Some useful methods

* sequence_number - incremented with each instance
* unique - just unique string 
* we a planing add more

== Install

Put following lineinto your Gemfile
  
  gem 'famili' 

== FEATURES


== CHANGE LOG:

* 0.1.6  - support creation of models with properties which have only set accessors
* 0.1.5  - fix *method_missing* in *define_method*
* 0.1.4  - famili now creates child in scope of model. So, *self* is a reference to model.
* 0.1.3  - supported anonym scopes with scoped. Supported collection creation methods: build_brothers, create_brothers. Supported initialization block for build, create, build_brothers, create_brothers.
* 0.1.2  - migrated to Rails 3 and Ruby 1.9 (no backward compatibility). Supported scopes & access to model methods. Fixed multiple access to calculated properties.
* 0.0.6  - rename Mother#hash to Mother#build_hash (to avoid conflicts with Object#hash in Ruby 1.9). Old name keeped as alias when using with oldest versions of Ruby for backward compatibility.
* 0.0.5  - add raise NoMethodError if property declared without block (becose it is error-prone), fix Famili::Mother.class#name method
* 0.0.3  - fix Mother.create call model.save!; Mother.hash return symbolized hash
* 0.0.2  - add inheritance, and mother methods [unique,sequence_number]
* 0.0.1  - created

== TODO 

* generators 

== LICENSE:

(The MIT License)

Copyright (c) 2010 niquola

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
